[FLINK-18065][docs] Document FLIP-65 table and scalar functions (#12660)
apache/flink: docs/dev/table/functions/udfs.md

env.createTemporarySystemFunction("HashFunction", HashFunction.class);

// call registered function in Table API
env.from("MyTable").select(call("HashFunction", $("myField")));

// call registered function in SQL
env.sqlQuery("SELECT HashFunction(myField) FROM MyTable");

{% endhighlight %}
</div>

<div data-lang="Scala" markdown="1">
{% highlight scala %}
import org.apache.flink.table.annotation.InputGroup
import org.apache.flink.table.api._
import org.apache.flink.table.functions.ScalarFunction

class HashFunction extends ScalarFunction {

  // take any data type and return INT
  def eval(@DataTypeHint(inputGroup = InputGroup.ANY) o: AnyRef): Int {
    return o.hashCode();
  }
}

val env = TableEnvironment.create(...)

// call function "inline" without registration in Table API
env.from("MyTable").select(call(classOf[HashFunction], $"myField"))

// register function
env.createTemporarySystemFunction("HashFunction", classOf[HashFunction])

// call registered function in Table API
env.from("MyTable").select(call("HashFunction", $"myField"))

// call registered function in SQL
env.sqlQuery("SELECT HashFunction(myField) FROM MyTable")

{% endhighlight %}
</div>

</div>

> If you intend to implement or call functions in Python, please refer to the [Python Scalar Functions](../python/python_udfs.html#scalar-functions) documentation for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you intend to implement or call functions in Python, please refer to the [Python Scalar Functions]({% link dev/table/python/python_udfs.md %}#scalar-functions) documentation for more details.
```

  .select($"myField", $"newWord", $"newLength")

// register function
env.createTemporarySystemFunction("SplitFunction", classOf[SplitFunction])

// call registered function in Table API
env
  .from("MyTable")
  .joinLateral(call("SplitFunction", $"myField"))
  .select($"myField", $"word", $"length")
env
  .from("MyTable")
  .leftOuterJoinLateral(call("SplitFunction", $"myField"))
  .select($"myField", $"word", $"length")

// call registered function in SQL
env.sqlQuery(
  "SELECT myField, word, length " +
  "FROM MyTable, LATERAL TABLE(SplitFunction(myField))");
env.sqlQuery(
  "SELECT myField, word, length " +
  "FROM MyTable " +
  "LEFT JOIN LATERAL TABLE(SplitFunction(myField)) ON TRUE")

// rename fields of the function in SQL
env.sqlQuery(
  "SELECT myField, newWord, newLength " +
  "FROM MyTable " +
  "LEFT JOIN LATERAL TABLE(SplitFunction(myField)) AS T(newWord, newLength) ON TRUE")

{% endhighlight %}
</div>

</div>

If you intend to implement functions in Scala, do not implement a table function as a Scala `object`. Scala `object`s are singletons and will cause concurrency issues.

> If you intend to implement or call functions in Python, please refer to the [Python Table Functions](../python/python_udfs.html#table-functions) documentation for more details.

Reviewer: Out of scope for this change, but I don't like how the python docs are seperated from everything else.

Author: I also don't like that but the JVM APIs and Python differ a lot. Python has own annotations, a subset of the data types (that even still go through type information internally), and just basic function support. So not much in common with what is documented here. In the previous version, the documentation was even duplicated which is also hard to maintain.

> If you intend to implement or call functions in Python, please refer to the [Python Table Functions](../python/python_udfs.html#table-functions) documentation for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you intend to implement or call functions in Python, please refer to the [Python Table Functions]({% link dev/table/python/python_udfs.md %}#table-functions) documentation for more details.
```

</div>

{% top %}

Best Practices for Implementing UDFs
------------------------------------

The Table API and SQL code generation internally tries to work with primitive values as much as possible. A user-defined function can introduce much overhead through object creation, casting, and (un)boxing. Therefore, it is highly recommended to declare parameters and result types as primitive types instead of their boxed classes. `Types.DATE` and `Types.TIME` can also be represented as `int`. `Types.TIMESTAMP` can be represented as `long`. 

We recommended that user-defined functions should be written by Java instead of Scala as Scala types pose a challenge for Flink's type extractor.

> 

Reviewer: Its below the diff, but can you change the code example in "Integrating UDFs with the Runtime" to use `TableEnvironment` instead of `BatchTableEnvironment`?
